# 3/06/2019
- Log Created

It’s been a while since I have worked on this project, mostly due to issues I came up with that required heavy amounts of re-working.

The Gradle files have been built at last, so the project can be built locally and tested on number of machines including Windows, Mac and Linux. While it hasn’t been tested on any other machines but windows, I’m confident it will have the same result. Although the deploy files for Gradle are currently not working, I’m not adept at Linux commands so I assume the issue has to do with the pre deploy bootstrap that creates the required file structures for the project. I could copy the files manually to the development board, but I’d rather avoid this. I will need to ask for Jaci’s Help in that regard.

The project currently consists of three main programs, the Voice Recognition Program, the Vision Tracking Program and the Machine Learning Program. They mostly speak for themselves in what they offer, the easiest of the bunch is vision tracking. It’s no surprise there, I’ve spent almost a year and a bit programming vision tracking for numerous robots, with almost the exact same requirements. If slightly less than the robots it was designed for. However, it does still come up with the issue of lag. But the lowered resolution mostly fixes this issue, and if I’m being honest. Vision tracking is more of a “good to have in case” rather than a need.
Currently my main issue and the reason I haven’t been working on this project for a while, is the voice recognition. With limited online knowledge and sources for it, especially ones that match my wants. It’s difficult to find. I eventually found a program called VOCE. Italian I think for voice, it was almost exactly what I was looking for. It was a small program that didn’t require a huge setup and had an in-built library of all the words it could synthesise and recognise. But the main library was written in java. Something called jni.h, the exact building block for this project was built in this library. And while it did have a C++ counterpart, I was never able to get it working with the gradle files we had. And even Jaci said it was too much of a nuisance to try and get up and running, as the source code was more of an application than a library, or something on those lines. 

So I needed to find something else, I searched for a couple days and came up on another program called sphinx, the issue is. It looks incredibly advanced. And in itself uses a version of machine learning to detect languages. It looks complicated but I think I might be able to get it working on our systems, the libraries are completely supported in C++ and it provides an offline library and more advanced recognition. Others online who have been looking for similar have suggested Google’s online library, that sends the audio to them online and then passes back the info. While I get using it would be handy, with google and all being great at their recognition. I’m not looking for something that needs internet access, because of obvious reasons when looking at a project like this. The whole point of this project is to get it as close as possible to a human, and even if it turns out terribly. I still want to take the steps to make it as close as possible for my first time. I don’t see any people going around with antennas stuck to their heads, do I?

My next issue which I haven’t really done much research on is the neural networking for the machine learning, I’ve done a fair few lessons online for it. But nothing practical of yet. Currently I am using OpenNN, which so far seems to be a rather good deep learning program to build with. But I haven’t been building it or anything yet. So I’m unsure if I might hit another bump in with it, similar to the VOCE issue. But it does look promising, the current programming for it is an example given by the creators. A simple 10 neuron program that replicates a cancerous organism that spreads depending on weights around it. I haven’t even started to think about how to program it for what I need, But I know that voice recognition is going to be the least of my worries when I face it.

But while I was researching it I did notice a couple things I might need to start thinking about. Possibly a cardinal program, not consisting of any neural networks. Designed to control and maintain the program, so it doesn’t do anything stupid. Like assuming that no audio is good and it should start talking to no one rather than a person in front of it. Small things like that, so the network doesn’t fall apart. It’s also sounds like a good way to implement some security measures in case the network becomes unstable. I don’t expect this thing (especially my first time programming neural networks) to become sentient or anything. But it’s a good habit to get into I suppose. Just make sure it doesn’t do anything like access google and start looking at weird stuff…

Another thing that I’m not going to start looking at now but in the future, is some way to save the neural network on the development board and be able to implement it back into the code. Eventually after it has learnt enough to speak normally and with minimal changes on board. I don’t think I will need this. But definitely for the start. Currently the gradle files are designed to only deploy to the development boards. And to purge the traces of the previous program. Good for regular programming. Making sure the updated program is not conflicted with others. But an issue for my needs. It would be a shame to destroy a perfectly good brain that has been learning for a couple days all because I forgot some motor control programming.

I’m thinking of adding it to the cardinal program that I’ll make. I’ll need to find a way to send the weights of each connection and ect to some kind of source. It’s possible to do this over a database. But it seems complicated to only give the weights and connection number, and then try to figure out how to get those random numbers and put them back into order on another program. Another way is making a folder on the SD card, that it saves the Machine learning program to, that is not listed in the purging program. And I also want to make another task for gradle (if possible) to download those files and place them in a sort of cache file in the program, that the machine learning program uses to implement it’s network again. And cycles and learns via that. But I’m unsure how to do this, I’ll need to query Jaci.

But before I even start that, I need to fix this voice recognition issue.
